Distibutions
    types:
        - Probability distribution
        
        - Probability distribution
            def: relative frequency with which
                    some random variable 
                        takes on different values.
                - defined using probability density function

                - returns probability of a random value lying between two values.
                    - defines a curve   
                        - where the values in x axis lie between two minimum and maximum value of the variable.
                        - area under curve between the two points 
                            gives probability of the random value 
                                falling within that range
                                
            English: A method for descibing the distribution
            
            types:
                - Discrete
                - Continous

                - Discrete
                    def: The different values are drawn from FINITE SET of values.
                        e.g. for coin flip, only Heads or Tails possible.
                             distribution = probability of heads + probability of tails
                                NB: Must equal 1
                        i.e. distribution = sum of probability of each value

                - Continous
                    def: The different values are drawn from a SET of REALS(Real Numbers)
                            between two numbers.
                        e.g. 1 to 2
                             Infinite numbers beween 1 and 2.
                    ∴ can't enumerate and sum all probabilities of different values in an infinite set.
                            ACTUALLY probability of each value
                                in an infinite set is close to zero/zero(when set is truly inifinte)

                    ∴ SOLUTION: Probability Density Function(PDF)
                        def: probablity of a random variable 
                                lying between two numbers.

references: 
    John Guttag, Lecture 6: Monte Carlo Simulation, MIT 6.0002, https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-0002-introduction-to-computational-thinking-and-data-science-fall-2016/lecture-videos/lecture-6-monte-carlo-simulation/