def 1: The field of study that gives computers
            the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed(Guttag, 2016).
        - Arthur Samuel, 1959

def 2: The science(and art) of programming computers to learn from data(Geron, 2019).
        Q: How do we program computers to LEARN from DATA?
            => mathematical algorithms

def 3(Geron, 2019): A machine is said to learn from experience E
        with respect to task T
        as measured by P
        IF, it improves the execution of T 
                as measured by P
                AFTER "experiencing" E
        E = data⁶

def 4:⁷ The study of algorithms
            that IMPROVE their performance
                at a task
                with experience(i.e. data)

            They optimize based on performance criterion
                using example data or past experience.

        Combination of techniques from Statistics and Computer Science
        
def training set: data used to train the the computer(Geron, 2019).
    def training instance(sample): each example in the training set


Example(Geron, 2019):
    Email Spam Flagging
        T := flag spam emails from incoming email
        E := training set with spam examples
        P := number of correctly classified spam/ total number of emails
            i.e. accuracy measure
            i.e. ratio of correctly flagged new email to total new email

Traditional Programming vs Machine learning(Kepner, 2020)(Domingos, 2015)

    Traditional Programming:
        Data ---->
                    Computer ----> Output
        Program ->

    Machine Learning:
        Output -->
                    Computer ----> Program
        Data ---->

        e.g. Output = Images, Data = Labels associated with the images
             Computer "figures" out the Program to allocate data to output(i.e. labels to images) would look like.

    What are the programs/algorithms the computer can use to "figure" out the program to
        associate, match etc data to output
        ANS: supervised, unsupervised, reinforcement learning
            refer 2_machine_learning_systems.txt for deeper look.
References:
    - Guttag, J. 2016.  Lecture 4: Stochastic Thinking, 6.0002 - Introduction To Computational Thinking And Data Science. Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
    - Geron A. 2019. Hands On Machine Learning with Scikit Learn and TensorFlow. 2nd edition
    - Kepner, J., Gadepally, V. 2020. RES.LL-005 - Mathematics of Big Data and Machine Learning. Massachusetts Institute of Technology
    - Domingos, P. 2015. The Master Algorithm.